
# Amazon Sales Dashboard

Dataset Link: https://accounts.google.com/AccountChooserEmail=anchurusatwika%40gmail.com&faa=1&continue=https%3a%2f%2fdocsgooglecom%2fspreadsheets%2fd%2f10zjq12wwMzr25jhbJym3zIAP5W8eWFp7%3frtpof%3dtrue%26usp%3ddrive_fs

## Problem Statement 
Analyze and visualize key aspects of Amazon's sales data including sales performance by product category, customer segment, region, and sales channel. 
Use data analysis and visualization to identify trends, patterns, and insights which can be used to optimize sales strategies and improve profitability.

## Dashboard includes
- Total sales, total quantity, total profit and total shipment cost.
- A column chart that shows the total sales by product category.
- A line chart that shows the sales trend over time, with the X-axis displaying month and year, and the Y-axis displaying sales.
- How do the sales and profits of each product category compare across different customer segments?
- How do sales revenue and profit vary across different product categories and sub-categories?
- How does the average discount percentage vary across different product sub-categories?
- How do sales and profit vary by region, state, and city?
- Showing the geographic distribution of customers by state, with states ranked by profit.

## Dataset Explanation

- `Order ID` - This column contains a unique identifier for each order made by customers.
- `Order Date` - This column contains the date on which the order was made by the customer.
- `Ship Date` - This column contains the date on which the order was shipped by Amazon.
- `Ship Mode` - This column contains the shipping method used to deliver the order, such as Standard Class, first class, same day etc.
- `Customer ID` - This column contains a unique identifier for each customer who placed the order.
- `Customer Name` - This column contains the name of the customer who placed the order.
- `Segment` - This column contains the segment to which the customer belongs, such as consumer or corporate.
- `Country` - This column contains the country to which the order was shipped.
- `City` - This column contains the city in which the order was delivered.
- `State` - This column contains the state or province in which the order was delivered.
- `Region` - This column contains the region or area in which the order was delivered.
- `Product ID` - This column contains a unique identifier for each product ordered by the customer.
- `Category` - This column contains the category to which each product belongs, such as electronics or home appliances.
- `Sub-Category` - This column contains the sub-category to which each product belongs, such as laptops or refrigerators.
- `Product Name` - This column contains the name of each product ordered by the customer.
- `Sales` - This column contains the total sales revenue generated by the order.
- `Quantity` - This column contains the quantity of each product ordered by the customer.
- `Discount %` - This column contains the percentage of discount given to the customer on the order.
- `Profit` - This column contains the profit generated by the order, calculated as the difference between the sales revenue and the cost of goods sold.
- `Shipment Cost` - This column contains the cost of shipping the order to the customer.

## Visualisations Used

- Used `card visuals` to calculate Total sales, total quantity, total profit and total shipment cost.

- A `column chart` that shows the total sales by product category.

- A `line chart` that shows the sales trend over time, with the X-axis displaying month and year, and the Y-axis displaying sales.

- Used a `matrix visual` to compare the sales and profits of each product category across different customer segments.

- Used a `Tree Map` to show the variation between sales revenue and profit across different product categories and sub-categories.

- To Show the geographic distribution of customers by state, with states ranked by profit, created a basic `map visual`.

## Insights
- Standard class is a favourite among customers.
- The western region is the most profitable.
- Technology is the highest-selling product category.
- In 2017, sales reached 0.7M (Highest).
## Recommendations
- We can increase product for the highest subcategory for each category
    - Phones in Technology
    -  Chairs in Furniture
    -  Storage in Office Supplies
- To increase sales in the South and Central region, we can give more discounts and offers.
